The last big thing we have to add in to our application is to detect whenever our ball right here reaches
the goal at the very bottom right hand corner.
So what we're really trying to do here put in a more simplistic way or a more kind of engineering sense
is detect a collision event between two different shapes.
Let's write out some code that will allow us to detect whenever two different shapes inside of our matter
application collide with each other.
It's going to go backwards.
My editor at the very top I'm going to find the matter object.
Once again we're going to pull another object off of that thing called events.
So this is an object that's going to let us listen for different things that actually occur inside of
our world object.
Well then go back down to the very bottom the file and down here are going to add in a comment called
win condition so the meaning here is that well this is how a user can actually win our game or win the
maze.
We're going to write out events not on engine.
We're going to listen for an event called Collision start double check your spelling on collision and
make sure that you also have a capital S on there as well.
And the third argument is going to be a callback function that's going to be called with some event
object.
So this event object is going or I mean this callback function is going to be invoked every single time
that there is a collision between two different shapes inside of our world.
Right now I'll add in a console dot log of event it's I'll save this I'll pull it back over refresh
and we'll do a quick test I'm go to press the key and just make sure that my ball runs into some wall
that counts as a collision.
So as soon as the ball runs into a wall I should see a console log and sure enough I do right there.
Now you're going to very quickly see some really strange behavior as we start to console log out this
event object the event object that is used by matter J.S. gets reused between different events.
So in other words this is kind of hard to like internalize but I'll show you some proof of it very quickly
this event object right here.
There is one single event object that matter J.S. owns every single time that any event occurs it adds
some properties to this event object to describe what just happened.
It then sends that object into our callback function immediately after our callback function runs all
the different properties of that event object get wiped out and removed.
That might sound really crazy.
But let's take a look at the console log that we just got.
You're going to see that in action really quickly because the weird behavior inside of our console.
So notice how when I got the initial console log like that right there I see that pairs is an array
of length one.
That means that there is a single element inside of the pairs array.
But if I expand this and look at pairs it is now empty.
And that is because when we got the initial console log like right here when we called console log on
the event object there was an element inside of that pairs array but the way that the chrome console
works is that it doesn't really evaluate or look at these different properties too closely until you
click on that little triangle and expand that thing.
So when you expand that entry right there chrome takes another look at that same exact object when it
takes that second look.
It says oh well it turns out there's actually nothing in pairs now because matter J.S. after it called
our event handler wiped out all the different properties inside this object.
That's why we're going to very quickly see some really strange behavior from our console as we start
to log out this thing so let's take another look at how we can console log this thing out and start
to get a real better sense of what's going on inside this event object without having to worry about
the fact that all the properties inside of it get wiped out going to remove the console log and replace
it with event that pairs dot for each
so as we just saw pairs is an array.
So I'm going to try to iterate through that array and I'm going to say for every collision I want to
console log that collision object.
So let's try this again if I flip back over loops refresh.
There we go and get the ball to run into something again.
Now we're going to see a slightly different console log.
Now we get to see what is actually inside of that pairs array whereas before by the time we looked at
it inside of our console it was already gone.
It already got destroyed.
Now we can see what is actually inside of that pairs array.
We can see that it is some kind of object that has a lot of different properties.
That describes the collision that just occurred the properties that you and I care about the most is
body a right here and a body b those two properties described the two shapes that just ran into each
other.
So we can see that.
I just had something with the label of circle body run into something with the label of rectangle body
and as you could probably guess that means that the ball right here ran into one of the walls so in
order to detect whenever a user gets the ball right here to reach our wind condition down the bottom
right hand side we need to just inspect the body a and body B properties.
And if they are the ball and that little goal that means that the user must have gotten to the goal
then they must have won the game.
All right.
So let's write out some code to detect that kind of collision going to first go back over to my editor
I can go to the very top and I'm going to change cells down to just three.
The reason for this is that I want to be able to very easily win the maze like really quickly.
So now this is a lot easier to win than what we had before.
Now if I touch the goal right there
I can inspect this thing you know I do get multiple the console logs here because I accidently ran into
a wall so I can make sure I select a console log that actually represents running into that body.
There we go.
That's one right there.
Now I see that I've got a body a rectangle body and again a body of circle body.
So these labels are not super helpful so we need some different way to identify whether or not we just
ran into the ball and the actual goal right there.
So to make sure that we can easily identify when body and body B are the ball and the goal we can go
back to where we create the ball and the goal and we can add in a custom label to each of them going
to find where I create the ball right here and then as a final argument to this thing I'm going to add
in an options object and to it I'm going to add in a label a property of simply ball I'll then find
where I create the ball.
The goal gives me right above.
So here's the goal right here I'm gonna add in a label of goal.
Now whenever we see those console logs we should have a more definitive label for both them.
I'll save this in a flip back over.
I'm going to try to win again.
There we go.
Now if I inspect the console log I get a label of gold and a label of ball that's way easier now to
detect when we have the ball and the gold contact each other as opposed to trying to figure out when
like one was simply ball and the other was rectangle body because every rectangle is going to be printed
out as rectangle now back inside of our event handler down here at the very bottom we can just do a
quick check and see if pair a and b are actually the ball.
And the goal now if you start to write out an if statement here we never really know if body a is going
to be the ball or body is going to be the goal and vice versa for body B.
So an easy way to kind of capture this and not have to write out a really long if statement right here
to compare all different possibilities is to create a little array and I'll call labels and I'm going
to have inside their ball and go and then I'll say if labels includes collision not body a dot label
and if labels includes collision body B dot label then the user must have hit the goal when you say
that you can see that whole line inside of you.
I'll do a console log of user 1 like so.
So again if we tried to write out an if statement to just look if body a was ball or goal and body B
was ball or goal Well that would just be a really long if statement.
So this is just an easy way to kind of collapse it down a little bit.
Let's save this.
I'll go back over refresh and now I can run into as many things as I want and I don't see any console
logs.
It's only when I run into that goal right there that I see the console log of user 1.
So that's pretty much it.
That's how a user is going to win the game so let's take a pause right here now that we can detect this
win we can start to tell the user hey you won or whatever else we want to do a quick pause.
We'll take care of that in the next video.